---
title: Zed and PowerShell on macOS
author: tto
tags: Zed PowerShell
excerpt: "Using the PowerShell extension with Zed."
---

VSCode has been my daily driver pretty much since it launched. It's got a great community and amazing extensions, but sometimes it's slow, and it started draining my battery *a lot*. I began looking for alternatives, and it wasn't long before I came across [Zed](https://zed.dev). Zed is a relatively new, high-performance code editor. It's so fast that typing literally feels easier :)

Most of my (coding) work revolves around PowerShell, so the lack of support was a problem for me. I followed Zed Industries' GitHub and noticed that some good soul closed [this issue](https://github.com/zed-industries/extensions/issues/496) a few days ago. Did they just add support for PowerShell? The answer is yes, as it turns out!

## The Extension

First of all, we need to install the PowerShell extension. Like in VSCode, press `⌘ ⇧ X` (Command + Shift + X) to open the extensions tab. Type "PowerShell" and press install.

## PowerShell Editor Services

Then we need a language server to provide common editor features for the PowerShell language. Think tab completion, IntelliSense, best practices, and so on. There's a PowerShell module that provides just that: {% render "icon_github", username: "PowerShell", reponame: "PowerShellEditorServices" %}

Download the latest release and unzip it to a folder on your local device; in my case, it is: `/Users/tom/code/PowerShellEditorServices`.

## Zed Configuration

Lastly, we need to tell Zed where to find the language server (LSP). Again, like in VSCode, press `⌘ ,` (Command + ,) to open settings and configure the LSP. You can also set `pwsh` as the default shell and [much more](https://zed.dev/docs/configuring-zed).

```json
"terminal": {
  "shell": {
    "program": "pwsh"
  }
},
"lsp": {
  "powershell-es": {
    "command": "pwsh",
    "args": [
      "-NoProfile",
      "-Command",
      "/Users/tom/code/PowerShellEditorServices/PowerShellEditorServices/Start-EditorServices.ps1"
    ]
  }
}
```

Have fun!
